If this is how you learn market
structure, you'll actually understand
all of the basics of market structure.
But the moment you go into the live
chart, this is what do you see? A market
structure shift followed by a loss, and
this keeps happening, a loss after
another despite having full
understanding of the concept itself. But
when you go to the live chart, it's a
different story. And after 8 years of
experience, let me tell you this that
this is something that's very normal. So
if you're struggling with this, then
make sure to watch the video until the
end because I'll give you a view of
seeing and identifying the market
structure in a way that probably no one
ever teach you because everyone is
repeating the same thing, but they're
not applying their understanding and
their method. Now the issue is that
market structure is very easy to
understand, so you can actually teach
break of structure, market structure
shift, and all of the conditions. You
can say that this is a ranging market,
but it is impossible to apply. Instead
of impossible, I'll be saying hard and
very difficult. So you're not alone in
this. A lot of people are struggling
with market structure. And by the way,
if you want to have access to my
resources library, the indicators, video
slides, my trading view themes, and a
lot of other things, you'll have the
link in the description. Feel free to
check it out. Now to understand market
structure, we have two conditions, two
main formations that goes inside of the
market structure. The first one is we
have a continuation, and then we have a
reversal. There is nothing Now yeah, we
could have a ranging, but when it comes
to ranging, we're not trying to trade
based on a range even though there are
some methods to trade ranges, but it's
not on this video. So two things to
focus on here, continuation and
reversal, and both are valid, both can
be tradeable, and both can give you good
reward to risk. Now continuation, how do
you understand it? It's a break of
structure, or we can call it swing,
meaning that what we're having is a
range, so price is going lower creating
a low and creating a high, and then
breaking below the last low. This could
be anything, but then after that because
we're confirming that we're bearish
here, what happened is a low, a high,
and then we break the low again. So what
is this? This is a confirmation that
we're continuing in the same direction.
That is price breaking lows when the
trend is going lower. That is what a
break of structure is. Now for reversal,
it's the opposite of this. It's when we
are actually moving lower, and then we
change to going higher for example. So
reversal is identified by a market
structure shift or weakness. Weakness
means that we're not being able to
continue in the same direction anymore,
and we can see it like this. So if you
notice, what happened here is a break of
structure, a break of structure, and
here we're supposed to continue lower,
and then respecting the high here. What
happened is not respecting the high. So
what happened is a break of structure, a
break of structure, and almost here you
could say a break of structure, but
you'll learn in the next slides why this
is not a break of structure. We're going
to be looking at the displacement rule.
We're supposed to respect the high here,
but we break above it. So now we're
changing from lower lows and lower highs
to actually breaking above the high, and
now we're creating an uptrend instead.
So that is the difference between
continuation and reversal. The moment
you understand this, you can put it
together, and that's how you can see the
whole picture of the market structure.
So it's all pieces of these two
conditions. Now just to be clear,
everything I'm teaching here is just one
piece of the edge model, the same model
behind the 10 to 1, 15 to 1 reward to
risk trades you've seen me take and
share. Inside Edge School, everything is
built into a repeatable system,
something that actually makes sense when
you apply it. And if that's what you're
looking for, you can check it out. For
now, let's continue. Now trading is all
about, if you ask me, it's all about
positioning inside a high probability
range, meaning that I'll be identifying
a high probability range, and then
inside of that range, I'll be looking
for a trade. That gives me a higher
probability of the trade working. But
before that, what is a high probability
range? Or in other words, what does it
give me? So when I have a high
probability range, what I'm getting is a
clear invalidation, which is the stop
loss, because if price goes above a
specific point, then I'll be out, and
that is the invalidation point. It can
also give me the potential target or the
take profit, and it can give me the key
level to enter, which is the entry. The
moment you have these three things, if
you notice, the entry, stop loss, and
take profit, that's your trade. So we
can say that the moment you can identify
a valid high probability range, you're
having a potential trade, and you have
all of the components of a valid trade.
So how can this be seen in a trade? Now
if we notice here, we have price going
lower. Now we're going to be looking at
what is a high probability range, but I
want to show you how you can actually
have everything presented to you
whenever you have the high probability
range. So at this high to this low, it
is actually a high probability range,
but you will know in the next slides how
to identify one. Now we have a high, we
have a low.
If you notice, the high here is because
we're bearish here. If price goes above
it, we could have stop loss. Now a stop
loss could be anywhere inside of this
range. The most popular one, the safer
one. So the safer one would be above the
high, but somewhere in here above the
high, that's where your stop loss goes.
Now some people will be talking about
liquidity and other things, but yes,
liquidity is everywhere, but there are
some valid structures which gives you a
higher probability of price continuing
from them, and there are some weak
structures that price will actually take
and disrespect. So we're talking about
high probability structure or ranges. So
if this is the stop loss, where could be
the entry coming from? Because we
discussed that we have a stop loss, take
profit, and entry. The entry would be
somewhere in between. Could be here,
here, or here, or here, depending on the
key level that you're using. But then
the take profit, where could it be?
Yeah, it could be also inside of the
range, and the I'll say the most popular
one, or it could be the most logical one
as well, is somewhere in here, the take
profit and the low of the range. So the
high of the range when it's bearish goes
the stop loss, the low of the range when
it's bearish goes the take profit, the
potential take profit. And that's how
just a high probability range takes you
all back to the basics of trading.
That's the way we need to understand it,
and not just a textbook example of okay,
a break of structure and the mapping and
all of that. Things that make sense on
the textbook, but when you apply it to
the real chart, it's not going to work.
Now let's go over the structure rule.
Yes, there are some structures that will
be holding price to continue in the same
direction, and there are structures that
are made in order to be respected and
change the direction. So how could we,
you know, differentiate between the two?
Now there is one rule that we're going
to be applying, and it's going to be the
main rule. And there are some other
rules that are going to come
throughout the next slides, but the main
rule is that before the structure holds,
it must be held. That mean if I have a
structure here, and we have a key level,
this is going to hold
if the high of the range or the high of
the structure or the whole structure is
being held in the first place.
So if we have something like this,
and this is not held by anything here,
it's not going to hold.
But if we have something like this,
and we have a key level being holding
this here, then a lot of time this is
going to be holding the price lower
again. So the structure will actually
hold and have a continuation if it's
already held. That's how we understand,
and that's the first rule of structure.
So if I ask you a question here, are we
bullish or bearish here? Everyone is
going to be having a different opinion
depending on how you apply market
structure, how you were taught the
concept itself. So some people would be
looking for, based on this, buying from
here. Other people would be selling from
here. Another people would be selling
from here. Other people would be selling
from here, and some people would wait
for
price to break and then going lower. So
lots of confusion here and lots of
different opinions, which is totally
okay for different people, but for you
to have different opinions is going to
equal to confusion. So that's not
something that we're trying to do here.
What we're trying to do is focusing on a
high probability range, meaning that as
price is going lower, we have a break of
structure here. If this fits the high
probability criteria for a range or
structure, we're going to be looking for
this, and we're going to say that okay,
we are now bearish regardless of
anything to the left. So I'm bearish
here, I'm going to sell when price
retrace back into the range. A break of
structure, if this fits, I'm going to be
selling. Now we do have a market
structure shift. I'll be actually
instead of selling from somewhere, I'll
be buying from here because this is a
high probability range, and we'll be
looking for the continuation. A break of
structure, high probability range,
continuation, and same thing goes over
and over. But then we're going to be
learning how to actually focus on high
probability ranges and the three
criteria for that. Before that, there
was something that we can actually apply
here, and it comes from the concept of
time frame alignments, top-down
analysis, and then using key levels. And
also alignments between the big picture
and the small picture. Assuming that we
have this big range, price had weakness
and then strength, and then it continues
a
Some people would say, you know what?
We're looking to long from here because
now we do have a break of structure or
you know, a market structure shift
because we're bearish but now we change
to bullish and then we're going to wait
for this. There is nothing wrong with
that. But the highest probability
condition comes when we have an
alignment. The alignment will be from
the big picture, which is what we have,
which goes from here to here that is a
high probability range and then the
moment we go inside of the range. So we
have a big range that is even a frugal
above here, we're still bearish because
this high was not disrespected. So we
have now a big picture. But when we have
this last range giving me a high
probability range going lower. So if I'm
focusing on this, this is the last price
action leg and then we have a weakness
and a break of structure here, it's
going lower.
What happens is that if this is aligned
with the main range and from a key
level, then I can actually trade this
going lower. So this becomes a high
probability range aligned with the main
range, the big picture. This is the
small picture aligned. Now I can
actually trade this knowing that not
only are we having this, but it could be
having this breaking the main low here.
So I can enter from here targeting the
main low of the big range into the high
probability structure and what actually
makes a structure a high probability.
Now the first one is the structure or
the range being anchored. That mean
price is having something at the top of
the range. So if if we're bearish here,
I need price or the high of the range
respecting either a key level
reacting of a key level or taking a high
meaning that we have some weakness.
There needs to be something at the top
that's holding price from continuing
higher. So an example of that is price
we have an imbalance. Price has been
going up and then we have a reaction of
an imbalance. That is one scenario.
Another scenario is price going up going
up going up and then having some
weakness at an imbalance or at an order
block or at a key level or at supply
demand anything. Anything could work.
This is a universe of thing that if you
change the key level, nothing change.
It's just the key level changing but not
the whole process. So anchored applies
to anything. The level needs to be
anchored. The second thing is
displacement meaning that I want to see
a break of structure. I want to see
price disrespecting or you know, giving
me a high probability range by
disrespecting the last low in this
example. So someone to look for a
bearish scenario, I want to see a
displacement below the low and there is
one specific rule that we need to apply
when it comes to the displacement and
it's going to make a big difference for
you. So make sure to watch that one too.
So a displacement in a continuation
scenario would be looking like this.
Displacement continuation displacement
continuation. In a reversal scenario,
it's going to look like this.
Displacement continuation and after that
we're having continuation. And the last
thing is price position meaning that I
want to see price reacting from
[clears throat] a good price position.
Meaning that if I have this range and
then we have a market structure shift
here. So what happened is something like
this. It's not going to be valid because
I do have this big range that is still
unfilled. It's illogical and not a smart
move to sell from here. I would be
looking at 50% of the range and maybe
the OTE zones and try to sell from here.
When price is reaching almost the top of
the range for example because it's safer
to enter from there. But then at the
beginning of the range, there is still
an unfilled range that price could go to
anytime. So So some people could be
selling from here, other people selling
from here. But then price is going to
reach a key level here at the top of the
range and that's going to be the valid
one. These three things needs to be
applied to any structure in order to
validate that one and say that, you know
what? We could be having a continuation
from that range instead of disrespect
and instead of reversal. Now the
displacement rule is very simple and not
a lot of people talked about because
what a lot of people are going to tell
you is that the moment we had a low,
price closed below it. If we have a
closure below it, that is a break of
structure or market structure shift
depending on the direction. So in this
case, a market structure shift and
you'll be looking for a continuation.
But a lot of time, man, let me ask you,
how many times you've seen this pattern
and then what happened after is this?
You've seen the pattern and what
happened is this. A lot of times, right?
Closing one candle below a low or one
candle above a high is not a real
displacement. It's price going into
another key level. So something like
this. Price going into a key level to
continue higher. It's not a break of
structure. To be honest, sometimes it's
going to be valid. So I'm not saying
that every time it's not valid.
Sometimes this will happen. So yes,
sometimes it can be valid. But we're
talking about probability. What is one
thing that we can do or one simple rule
that we can actually apply in order to
have a higher probability ranges. And
the rule is that displacement needs to
be higher than 1.5x to 2x the last move.
And the last move is the leg that we're
looking at a break of structure. So how
do we apply this? Let's assume that this
is where price is going higher, coming
lower, going higher and then breaking
below the low. So we close below the
last low. The last leg that we're
talking about or the last move is this.
So this is the last move that we're
supposed to be bullish here but then we
go below it. From here to here, let's
assume it's 10 pips. A valid break of
structure would be price
having the size of this 1.5 times this
or two times. So this needs to be at
least double this or one and a half
times this. Is it here two times this?
Not really. It's only about I don't
know, 10% more than this which is not
too valid. So it needs to be 1.5 times
or two times in order to validate this.
Now yes, again, probability meaning that
price could actually respect this range
here. But if you're trying to focus on a
high probability scenario, you're going
to be focusing on this. Notice how this
move here is almost at least one and a
half times bigger than this and maybe
two times bigger than this. So this is
10 pips. This might be 20 pips or 19
pips. Based on what you're seeing here,
which one is more likely to hold? Is it
this scenario number one? Is price going
to hold here or maybe continuing higher?
Or this one here where we have the
weakness and then the displacement but
real displacement, the size of this is
this big and it's almost double. But
then notice how when price is going to
go up, this is now a strong range and a
lot of time it's going to have a
continuation to the downside. And that's
the structure that we're trying to trade
with. Now let's put everything together.
What are we trying to do here is trying
to approach the chart in a much
different way just based on ranges and
trying to identify if the range is part
of a bigger range and the range that
we're dealing with is actually a high
probability one and then trade based on
it. Identifying the stop loss, the key
level meaning the entry and the
potential take profit based on that
range. All right. So now going into the
chart, what we want to see is apply the
basics that we learned and then we'll
also go over some of the alignments. So
we're going to go over some examples
using the alignment. Now simply by
looking at this chart, this is a
four-hour chart. I could zoom out here
and say, you know what? And I'll
complicate it more and more. I'll say,
you know what? We're actually bullish
here and I want to look for price coming
here. But then we have a new structure
happening here as well. It's much better
to focus only on the high probability
range. And if that range is a high
probability meaning that we could
actually have a continuation from that.
If I look at this here, so this just
ignore everything here and we're going
to go over this actually later. But what
I can see here is that we have a low
being taken and then we have a break of
structure. I mean, you could argue here
about the key level because everyone is
using a specific key level. But yes, we
have a key level here and we have
weakness. So we have this being
anchored. Now one thing is is not a best
here which is the price position because
we do have an unfilled range here. So
based on the structure, we have a two
out of three rating for this. Now price
pushed it outside, what do we have? A
break of structure. So that is another
point on the rating. So
two out of three. So this range from the
low here to the high is a two out of
three. So it's still tradeable. Now what
do you want to see is you want to look
for a key level. We do have some key
levels here and that's where price
actually came back to and pushed higher.
And if you notice,
we have a key level that could be our
entry. We have a stop loss maybe
somewhere in here or maybe lower or just
when we have an entry here on a lower
time frame, we could have it below
something like this and then it goes
below the entry. And targeting, we could
target some key levels inside of this
especially if we had another high
probability range. But we're looking at
another break of structure. Now what do
we have again here? We have key level
respected. Another [clears throat] thing
is a break of structure. Price position
is also good. So we have a three out of
three. Notice here. We look at a key
level again. Same thing. Now if you
wonder about these key levels, these are
some key levels that I teach in its
cool. So feel free to check that out if
you need it. Now another trade based on
another high probability range which is
this here. And our stop loss goes either
below the range because it's a high
probability one or below the entry. Now
for me, I would go below the entry
because I'd be looking at another entry
here on a lower time frame, targeting
the high as the main target, and then
looking at some key levels inside. So, a
key level here. That's where we get our
some respect. So, we could take some
partials here and then go break even.
That's over really 7:1, a huge reward to
risk. And that's how we approach it.
Now, if you notice this range here going
lower, is it actually a high probability
range? Actually, another thing I want to
mention is notice this last leg to the
downside. Okay? We have price going
lower. You want to measure how many pips
is that? 75. But notice this move that
caused the break of structure. How many
pips is it? It's 230. So, that's more
than three times this last leg. And if
we also look at this, so we have this
last leg here, that is 110, and price
going from here to here, that is 250.
So, that's also two times more. These
are the ranges we want to deal with.
Now, if we look at this, is it a high
probability range? For me, it's not the
highest probability one. Even though it
worked, but it's not. The reason is the
break of structure is not that clear.
It's only, you know, the pullback is
only one candle. I want to see a
structure instead. So, I want to see
multiple candles going up, multiple
candles going lower, but it's still it's
still valid, but not the highest
probability one. And here, this is not
the highest probability range. Now, on a
lower time frame, it could be. But this
one
looks like it is. The level is anchored,
a break of structure here, continuing
higher, key level, continuation. But
here is the alignment section. So, if
you notice that we are actually pushing
higher here. We had some structures that
we traded here. But then, we do have a
key level here, and we take this last
low, and then what happened here is, so
if I'm just focusing here, I outfocus
here and forget about everything. What I
see is some weakness happening,
a failing to close below, and that is
you could consider this as, you know,
the level,
the structure being anchored. And then
we have a break of structure. Now, you
could measure this last move to the
downside from here to here, and you
notice that it's 40 pips. The break of
structure, which happened here or here,
is 130. That's almost three times the
last leg. We started going higher. Now,
you want to go to the left also and see,
are we part of a bigger structure? If we
are, then that means we're actually
going to have a big move to the upside.
And notice how we have this, align with
the main range, which is going higher,
and a better price position than these,
so we could look for the high to be
taken now. So, now we have the
alignment. And notice how we have this
range, the break of structure. Where
could we look for a level here?
Have a respect as well. This is a good
range to trade, but it's not a range
with a break of structure. Now, this one
is a range with a break of structure.
So, you notice how we have, with this
range, we could have the first entry
somewhere in here. Then the second entry
would not be from here because we did
not have a break of structure of this.
So, it's not the highest probability
one. However, notice how this range
comes to an imbalance, fill the
imbalance. So, that is a key level being
respected, and we close out of it with a
break of structure. Now, this might not
be 2x this because this is 52, and the
whole move is 60. Actually, yeah, almost
two times, at least 1.5 times, so it's
valid. So, now we have a break of
structure, price coming lower after the
retracement, you want to look for a key
level to enter, a key level here, for
example. Want to see the respect on a
lower time frame and have an entry, and
that is another one. Ask yourself, is
this a high probability range? Not
really because we just went above the
high and immediately go lower, so not a
high probability range, and these are
the ranges we want to avoid because we
did not have the displacement rule
happening here. The moment you apply the
displacement. Now, even sometime inside
of here, you notice how this range, if
we apply the criteria, the three
criteria, we have a key level being
respected. We also have weakness, so
this is a high that is anchored, and
then we do have a break of structure,
and it's definitely at least 1.5 times,
and the price position is also good. So,
we have the three criteria being
respected here. Now, we look at the key
levels. We have a key level here,
another one here, and this one is
respected. Notice how we have a respect,
immediately continuing lower, on entry
here, looking at the low to be taken,
but also monitor how some other key
levels inside of the range could give a
reaction. So, after a level given a
reaction, we could actually go break
even, and sometime you'll be out because
not every time you'll be part of the big
range. Sometime you'll be against that.
But still, since the range, even the
minor range, is a high probability, you
could have a trade idea that could go to
5:1, for example. If I just go to the
left here, notice how we have this range
pushing higher, so we have a break of
structure, but we still did not have the
retracement until here. And notice how
this did not give a valid break of
structure. So, now what I can do is, you
know what? I'll take this range, and I
want to see the alignment out of this
range in order to continue even higher.
So, price goes lower, we don't have a
break of structure, goes lower, respect
the key level, but also give a break of
structure. And based on the rule of the
displacement, this is 44, and this is
100. So, yes, it's definitely two times
more, a break of structure. We want to
look for a key level inside of this
range because now it's becoming a high
probability one, so we're expecting this
low to hold, and we're expecting this
high to be taken. This is my target.
Stop loss below here. Okay?
And then a key level, so for example,
we're looking at this key level,
depending on the entry. Now, you could
have an entry here, you could have an
entry here. You could have an entry and
then get stopped out and have another
entry, so it all depends on your entry
itself. This is your main target, but
you could extend it if it was broken,
and that's
a huge rate. That's how we deal with
market structure the right way. We find
a high probability range based on the
three criteria, and then we trade based
on it. So, that's it for this video.
Make sure to check out It's Cool, my
community, and my classes. And if you
want to trade with me, make sure to hit
the like button and subscribe. That's
it, and I'll see you next one.